[Laughter]
foreign
does that mean we're actually live it's
likely
okay
would you like to take it away for us no
dude you go ahead and intro
all right welcome welcome welcome
everyone
it is fantastic to be live once again
with my with my good buddy
colton we're to be talking about
Stellar community funding
we've we've we've talked about
this in the past
but it was kind of looking forward to
a future date when it would actually
all go live and lo and behold that day
has finally arrived
and so scf 2.0 after many many months of
planning
and building the ecosystem team is
finally ready to release
scf 2.0 and that's what
we're going to be talking about today
this is engineering talk so we will get
into the weeds a little bit on some of
the technical decisions
and implementations that we have in this
new version of the Stellar community
fund but it's also going to be
a bit longer than normal engineering
talks so normally in journey talks for
like 15
20 minutes this will probably go a
little bit longer than that to make sure
we do
justice to all the updates and have all
the information available to those who
are interested
in this update to the Stellar community
fund
so i've got my my fancy slide deck
open here and we're just gonna start
walking
straight through this i think it's worth
straight through this I think it's worth
taking a little bit of a look back
as well as the the look ahead to kind
of see where we've come from
and to understand a little bit better
why as well as where we're going
so to kind of inform our
discussion here let's look at our
mandate so the Stellar has a mandate
and the sdf is aiming to follow that
this is something we make public
and if you just type in google Stellar
mandate you can find
this particular quote somewhere buried
in there with all the other
missions and visions and mandates
that we follow at the sdf
when building Stellar the Stellar
community fund so one of our allocations
of lumens
is dedicated towards the Stellar
community fund this this community
funding initiative
and it gives the broader Stellar
community the opportunity to vote
on which projects deserve excellent
grants this is a very unique
fund in that it is the only one that
really gives
the the greater community a direct
opportunity to impact
the allocation of xlm grants the sdf has
a pool of lumens that it has mandated
to give out in certain scenarios and
to certain entities to accomplish
specific goals and tasks
and one of those is this pool of lumens
12 million
lumens a year that we give out via
the community so the community can take
part in allocating those and that's kind
of what we're doing with this big update
is to get closer and continue to iterate
on what we've done in the past
to align with this goal this mandate
as well as
getting closer so
we've we've been close to it but as the
as the ecosystem matures we need to
continuously update
and make sure that we're aligned with
our with our mandate
so a little bit of history the
Stellar community fund i would
Stellar community fund I would
lump it together with the Stellar build
challenge so way back in june
2016 the sdf released
a project called the Stellar build
challenge
and the first place winner
of that they had a different
categories and different you know
first place second
first second and third place and
first place was going to win 55 million
limbs the price of lumens back at that
time was actually less than a penny so
we've
we've come a long way since june 2016
entries in that very first Stellar
bill challenge included
galactic talk and lobster amongst others
so
two projects that we at least i know i
two projects that we at least I know i
use just about every single day
and then we move all the way through
september 2018 to the last
spc so the Stellar build challenge was
shut down at the number seven and then
shortly after that zach who hopefully
a lot of you
in this community know the hero really
of the sbc kind of took over
ownership of that and then
transitioned or
as the spc went out he brought back in
what we call the Stellar community fund
which was really starting to align more
closely with the
community vision of the
the mandate to have the community giving
away these lumens are allocating where
those 12 million lumens should go
and so that was carried out by by zach
he built it
designed it we've been running that for
a little over a year now
five different rounds and now we find
ourselves here august 2020
with the scf 2.0 and
these these different sbcs and scf like
they were all
good and they all worked well in
their in their time there may have been
things that would
could have been improved or changed
but we did that right so as
as things can be better we make efforts
to improve them
and that's really what the scf 2.0 is
trying to do and it's it's making maybe
a little bit bigger stab
an improvement something maybe akin to
what zack did when he
initially created or invented the
scf the original scf we're kind of
taking a big step at that so rather than
just adjusting some rules
we're actually restructuring it in a
pretty significant way taking the best
of both the spc and the scf into a into
a new fund
which we hope will provide
a fantastic funding mechanism for a long
time yet
before you keep going i do think it's
before you keep going I do think it's
worth highlighting
the original the very first round of scf
do you remember how voting
took place i do i do yes the the very
took place I do I do yes the the very
original round of sef we did a vote
in a reddit thread where people just
like typed in their
their preferences or their votes and we
had to like hand count them
zack hand counted them and i hand
zack hand counted them and I hand
counted them and then a community member
came up with a script to help count them
so we were like
manually counting comments in a reddit
thread so even scf 1.0 has come a long
way since the very first iteration
yeah that's exactly right we're always
trying to iterate and a lot of it again
like it's not
that something was bad and we're trying
to make it good it's that
as the ecosystem matures we have more
members more participants
and interest grows necessarily the
fund itself needs to change to better
suit and host the kind of growth that
we're seeing
a little bit of a fun fact the spc and
scf is actually where i came from
scf is actually where I came from
my intro to Stellar came from the sbc
with entries like popcorn color glyph
and Stellar ql
and then in the scf i had Stellar
and then in the scf I had Stellar
auth
and i think so one of the one of the big
and I think so one of the one of the big
focuses for me is i've thought about the
redesign of an scf and like where can we
actually make
important and meaningful changes
is to like the the funding obviously a
big focus of that
is the funding right the actual money
that's handed out
but Stellar community funding is as
much about people and relationships as
it is about giving money away if you
talk to
winners or or participants that really
took the scf
or sbcs seriously a large
majority will say that the relationships
and feedback
that they received were actually more
valuable than the money that they
received the money is obviously helpful
and that's why you're here
but a huge part of participating in this
is also the relationships and the actual
community aspect
so sure it's funding yes it's Stellar
but the community aspect is more than
just
the world can vote it's also the world
can participate
anybody who's interested in still
anybody wants to talk about
fintech and finance and moving money
around and transferring value anybody
that that's interesting to they can
participate and talk and give feedback
and
find projects that are interesting to
them and find their place
to communicate whether that's competing
actually submitting entries
writing documents you know submitting
with
events or documentation or actual
projects
or just combing through entries and
seeing which ones you feel like are
valuable
and interesting and something that
should actually receive funding
it's a it's a community fund and being
able to focus a bit more
on that aspect is something that was
really important to me in the redesign
of the sef is yes the funds are great
and we need to make sure we do the best
job possible of allocating those
appropriately
but a community is a huge part of this
so making sure the people are still at
the center
so if i were to summarize kind of the
so if I were to summarize kind of the
driving
principle behind the redesign for me
it's the right resources in the right
hands at the right time
resources being funds as well as
feedback
right hands being making sure that we're
getting these to actual projects
making sure the filtering process by
which entries come in and then get
funding that that flow
makes sense that nobody's being
overworked
in the review process that there's this
little angst and struggle
i mean it is a competition so you're
I mean it is a competition so you're
going to have
some of that but combing down on the
unnecessary pieces of that
and then at the right time so making
sure that our our funds
reflect the amount of money for
the time that the project has spent
on it and the amount of effort that's
gone in
so this to me is really kind of the
driving force behind
the theme of the redesign
and so with that those who aren't
familiar with
the scf currently it's it's a single
fund
that happens four times a year where
three million lumens are given out
split between eight different
projects
in this new scf 2.0 there are two funds
there's a lab fund and a seed fund the
lab fund being
the smaller experimental kind of open
source focused
documentation events the idea of like
seo market presence getting the
the word out there as well as real
world's real world stress tests so
building things that maybe aren't
necessarily perfect for the Stellar use
case as it stands but might help stress
test the network
that would be our lab fund and that
is
500 000 lumens given out four times per
year
split between about 12 different
projects and then we have the seed fund
the seed fund is for bigger projects
this is to help viable
innovative first-mover businesses and
utilities
to get started on Stellar these are
projects that we hope will still be
around
in the prize pool for that is five
million lumens split between three to
five projects and that
seed fund will happen twice a year
and so by splitting these funds i mean
and so by splitting these funds I mean
what we see right now in the scf is
these two different kinds of entries
larger projects as well as like
hackathon type projects
and they're both very valuable to the
ecosystem both can generate a lot of
excitement
the problem is right now they both
receive about the same amount of funding
where a lab fund a hackathon project
really it's it's
worth doing it it's worth competing for
a much lower price
and so you'd still be willing to
participate whereas in the seed fund if
you don't get enough money if you don't
get enough funding it's really hard to
keep that project
alive and keep it going and so by
splitting this up into two very specific
and defined funds
hopefully you'll know better which one
your project fits into
and then you receive the funding that's
appropriate more appropriate for
the kind of project that you have i will
the kind of project that you have I will
say that this
necessarily means that we also have to
introduce
a brand new component really two
components but maybe one's more of an
update but
we need to introduce the idea of panel
of judges as well as an update to our
voting mechanism
so we have a voting mechanism right now
and we
technically have a panel of judges but
right now it's the whole wide world
it's the whole community and
so let's say we have 20 entries that
come in how do we narrow that down to
like a final entry say with 300 entries
come in how do we narrow that down
to some sort of manageable list that a
final
voting round can happen where a
reasonable
amount of funds can be allocated and
there's not a lot of voter fatigue
with having to comb through 300
different entries the problem right now
is that the community the same community
technically will will vote in both of
those
so you're voting once you're picking all
the projects you're combing through lots
of entries
and then you kind of have to do a whole
thing over again in the final round
so you narrow down and then you you have
a final vote to allocate funds
in this new scf 2.0 we're removing or
really
splitting that so there'll be a panel of
judges which is a very select group
of community members who have
dedicated a lot of time and effort and
energy
into Stellar building on Stellar so they
maybe have won spcs or scfs in the past
they might be part of the infrastructure
grants or the enterprise fund people
that are really core
to the Stellar ecosystem as well as a
few sdf
employees like myself colton zack anka
and others and then those the the the
role of the panel of judges will be to
filter through all of the entries that
come in for either the seed of the lab
fund
and narrow that down to a final list
that they feel is
of highest quality and then those
finalists will make it into the
community
round voting which is this flaggable
quadratic voting
and with this we're really trying to add
velocity or add
sentiment to a community vote right now
it's very one-sided
where or at least it's very static
where when you have a vote you can say i
like this project this project
and this project there's no intensity
you can't say i really like this project
you can't say I really like this project
or
i kind of like this project or even i
I kind of like this project or even i
really don't like this project
all of those sentiments are quite
important to ensuring that
the actual amount of lumens the the
voting power
allows the sentiment or that that
curve
to most closely represent the actual
community sentiment that's
participating in that voting round and
we're hoping that through this flaggable
quadratic voting that we can achieve
that
this is kind of more of the the
technical aspect of this talk and
colton is actually he's the one who sold
me on the idea of quadratic voting and
I'm going to hand it over to him for a
little bit I'm going to bring up a
screen here with a demo
of quadratic voting and then just
kind of let him
explain where we stumbled upon quadratic
voting
how we've implemented ourselves and why
we think it's worth trying
yeah so we kind of came across quadratic
voting when
looking at how the sort of ethereum
ecosystem handles funding
in particular a project on ethereum
called git coin
they have this sort of funding
mechanism called quadratic funding
which is another flavor of sort of
quadratic voting where
basically they allow a group of people
to make donations to a project
you basically take this square root
of each project or each donation you
like add them all together and then you
square that and you kind of get a
matching number for that poll of
donations
and so we kind of borrowed from that
idea
and took the sort of original iteration
of quadratic funding
which is ultimately quadratic voting and
like tyler was saying
this idea of quadratic voting allows you
to
specify intensity towards your
preference of a boat
so in a traditional voting system where
it's just one person one boat
you have this problem where when you're
voting for multiple projects
you can't express how positively or
negatively
you feel about that project and we
thought you know what since we're doing
this
community boat we want experts in the
community to be able to double down on
projects they really like
we want people who are avid users of a
project to double down on projects they
really like
but we also want people to be able to
give super valid opinions
about projects they really like so if
they think something is over performing
then they can also downvote
that project which i think tyler will
that project which I think tyler will
show in this demo here so i'll kind of
let you show how it works and it's much
more intuitive once
you kind of start clicking around and
get a feel for how the voting mechanism
works
but we we have a better explainer on
the website and we also
have some resources we can provide for
anybody who wants to
sort of hear it out or learn more about
it yeah absolutely
yep and i think it's worth mentioning
yep and I think it's worth mentioning
too like this is an experiment
in a sense because i mean colin
in a sense because I mean colin
remind you every single time that
like we're trying this i think it's
like we're trying this I think it's
gonna be fantastic we'll see
that's the beauty of the scf is we
get to iterate and make improvements and
really see what works and what doesn't
but to kind of go through a demo here
ultimately there's a prize pool right so
you've got an amount of money
that's being allocated by percentage
vote so
as votes are given for or against
a project their percentage compared to
other projects changes and that
necessarily means the amount of prize
money
that they're winning changes and this is
something that we really want to
highlight
in the new voting design which by the
way this is a demo this isn't
actually what the voting site looks like
but this is a this is a good demo very
clean
and i hope it will help kind of allow
and I hope it will help kind of allow
you to play around with what you have
in quadratic voting but as you have
like let's say we really like this
unbranded wooden soap project and we
would like to give it some
some votes we would like to say i like
some votes we would like to say I like
this project if you give it a single
vote
you'll see right here by that by adding
a single vote you're going to give it
27.69
and so that is going to increase this
number by that 27
to get us to this number you've added
27.69 but that 2769
has to come from somewhere and it came
from
all these other projects 227 from here
30 bucks and and two pennies from
this project and
like that's how you can kind of upvote
download you can
sort of take money from other projects
and allocate it here but it's important
to understand
that that's what's happening as you
start to add votes to a project
really you start with this number of
credits and then as you vote
those credits are burnt and the
quadratic the the scaling part of this
happens is you start to upvote or
downvote a particular project multiple
times so if i click this again
times so if I click this again
it's going to be two votes but two times
two is four
and so it's going to burn four
credits so we voted twice but we've
burned
four credits so what that means is as
you start to click on this project more
we voted five times but five times five
is 25 so we've burned
25 credits voting for this project five
times
if we start voting for other projects
let's say i also really like this
let's say I also really like this
refined cotton shoes
I'm a big cotton shoes fan myself we
don't want this project to lose its
27.76 so we need to make sure we get
that back up
and so we're going to start to add a
little bit of money back to this project
so that this one comes up
and so we've added 661 to this and 24.
now we haven't necessarily like
it's still coming from the same pool
it's just allocating from all these
other ones taking money from those
projects
and putting it back in there but you can
in real time start to see how your votes
directly affect the outcome as it stands
when you're voting
and you have these credits that you can
start to burn but instead of it just
being static
five and two it scales quadratically
so that you can't overpower
a vote in a particular direction
and you allow that that sentiment
again
to to translate much more closely to
the the way that people would actually
vote and actually share their sentiment
if you were to
poll a community another thing that i
think is really important again this is
this is static this is standard
quadratic
voting but you might start to see a
problem here and this is
this starts to get into a little bit of
the issues that you find when you
are giving away money in the public is
manipulation
and there's lots you can do
when you're registering accounts like
you make sure you have accounts
that are voting are using a system
that's not free to create like
in our system we're using SMS
verification so you have to have a phone
that can receive SMS messages to be able
to vote in the past we've used key base
which has
some ability to to find who's voting to
decide like to make a decision on
whether or not
you believe them to be a legitimate
individual human being that doesn't have
a lot of copies of themselves in the
database
that's voting but manipulation out in
the public is is quite difficult
to do in the sbc right we just had a
panel of judges that would
pick the projects who we were we were
sure were we knew who they were
but when you open that up and you say
well let's let's open this up to a real
community vote it's great until the word
starts to get out and you start to see
wow we can actually win a lot of money
and the manipulation
becomes much more worth it
and if you don't increase the friction
if you don't add a layer of friction
then that manipulation will just start
to scale and that's really what we've
seen in the past particularly two scfs
four and five and really really strongly
in five you can go back and read our
post-mortem on
scf5 where voter manipulation just kind
of blew out of control and we knew this
was going to be the case because we were
using key base and it's free
to create a key base account and so once
people start to get the word
like i'll just create a free key base
account start using that to vote
and so you have to find ways to
counteract that and so circling all the
way back
to quadratic voting it's not enough to
just allow
kind of sentiment changes you also need
the ability to sort of flag things so if
a particular project is
way over performing or underperforming
what you believe they should
like let's say this project down here
well let's say a refined granite chair
just it's taking off we like this is
they their website doesn't even work why
is this project doing so well
you might be tempted to use all of your
credits right 10 times 10 is 100 credits
to to burn and try and get them down
from where you believe you know they
shouldn't get this much like they don't
have anything why are they getting this
much
but the problem is by downvoting them 10
times you haven't really affected the
vote at all you've just tried to
counteract
the bad acting that they that you
believe that they're doing
and so a better alternative is adding
this
idea of flaggable quadratic voting where
rather than using all your credits to
counteract a bad actor
you just put a sentiment so i want it to
you just put a sentiment so I want it to
go up i feel like this is
go up I feel like this is
under performing like somebody's
attacking this project and down voting
it and they shouldn't
and then I'm going to use 16 credits in
this case
to add a flag that basically just says
hey moderators can you please take a
look at this something's fishy
and you could also go in the other
direction too you say this is way over
performing
i think somebody needs to take a look at
I think somebody needs to take a look at
this the the panel needs to take another
look something's fishy with this
but now you've only burned a few credits
to make that flag and you still have in
this case 83 left
to just carry about your normal business
of upvoting
and down voting other projects as you
please so rather than having to spend
all of your credits
on counteracting bad actors you can just
flag it
the panel will take a look at it and you
don't have to worry about it anymore you
can carry on with your vote i think
can carry on with your vote I think
that's really important
in the iteration process of figuring
out the best way to have an open
community
fund where you are giving away a
relative
relatively large amount of money and
manipulation is going to happen it's
just how do we counteract that
and how do we allow the community to
take part in fighting against that so
that the fund is
the easiest the lowest friction but
also incredibly fair
and well run and as time goes on we'll
see how this works
and we'll make changes as necessary yeah
and we have a we have a couple questions
coming in about this so
one of them is can you recast votes
and the answer is
yes until you like submit your final
vote right so you'll be able to kind of
dynamically adjust your votes
however you want throughout the system
so say say you upvoted
one or two projects and you decide to
change your mind
before you submit you'll be able to do
that like it's not set in stone until
yeah it's not click submit
that's a really good question it's
something i've kind of gone back and
forth on could you like update votes
so there's two kind of problems that
i see with that one if you're able to
I see with that one if you're able to
like update votes
essentially you would make a change and
then that changes public to anybody else
that's also voting
and in the case of a bad actor you could
create a bunch of fake accounts
really skew up the vote and then kind of
reactively go back and change all of
that you know like remove all your votes
or update your votes in a particular
direction and
now it's not all that helpful and so
i don't think being able to update
I don't think being able to update
your votes is all that
necessary i think would probably do more
necessary I think would probably do more
damage than it would do
good the issue then obviously is well if
i if I'm allocating my funds
I if I'm allocating my funds
but then the project changes
significantly it gets a lot more votes
than it did when i voted then maybe i
than it did when I voted then maybe i
should just wait to vote to the very
last minute
and i think we'll have to see that
and I think we'll have to see that
because i don't really want people to
because I don't really want people to
wait until the very last minute to vote
but i don't i don't think in general
but I don't I don't think in general
that's going to happen it's just
something we'll have to evaluate and i
feel like
the way we've done it now is probably
the best way to start and then we just
have to see what happens
through the first like lab and seed
funds and then if adjustments are
needed either on updates or like the
frequency that you can make updates or
i don't know there's different
I don't know there's different
parameters you can add that might
help with some of the pros and cons
of either one of those options yeah i
don't think retro
like going back and changing a vote
after you submit it will
really ever be like a viable option but
you'll be able to do it before you
submit the other one
are there any features built in to
prevent flag spamming
not i don't think not in the ui or
not I don't think not in the ui or
anything like that there's nothing to
prevent it like
ultimately if people flag spam that
doesn't guarantee that a project will be
disqualified or anything like that it's
more of just like a
hey you guys really need to take a look
at this so if there's one particular
like say one project
gets one flag response it probably
won't get looked at but if it gets 20
flag responses then it'll probably end
up getting looked at
and if somebody is just flag spamming
and there's no obvious manipulation
taking place and they just
won't be disqualified or anything like
that yeah and that's
a it's a really good question and i
think
hopefully a good answer to that is that
flags don't actually affect
the prize allocation it's just a flag
you have to spend
credits to flag things so you can't flag
every project you can only flag
up to one less than half or i think
up to one less than half or I think
maybe one more than half
of the projects when when you're
actually making a flag but flags don't
count
for a positive or a negative when it
comes to the final prize allocation it's
just like hey take a look at this
this this one vote will count towards a
positive and so you can add more
positivity if you're like well
if this doesn't get improved i want to
if this doesn't get improved I want to
make sure that they get something
like you could do that but at the end
of the day the flag doesn't really do
anything as far as changing the vote
like nobody else is going to see
projects that have been flagged it's
just a note to the panels to the jud the
panel of judges for that round
that something might be fishy and
somebody needs to take a look at this
this entry
all right let me double check make sure
i did not miss anything
okay i think we're good on like the
okay I think we're good on like the
specifics of
quadratic voting the other did we did we
touch on why we think like linear
distribution is not ideal
and we did not call them would you like
to
wax eloquently sure let's talk about
linear distributions
so one of the big pro you know and we
call it a problem but it's easy to say
this in hindsight but one of the big
problems we identified with
the current model of scf is that the
distribution of funds is really linear
right like if you look at it on a graph
it looks like something like that
but the big problem with that is that
the
complexity of any given project in a
round can be very different so like
a project that gets second place and one
round could be like a full-on business
and the project that gets second place
and another round could be like a
hackathon project and if you have this
linear distribution of funds
that means those two projects got the
same amount of money
just based on which round they submitted
this isn't ideal
obviously because those projects are of
varying quality they need different
amounts of money to function properly
they need different amounts of money to
scale up properly
so we had a the reason we consider
quadratic voting is that
the community can kind of decide okay
look this
project is it needs way more money than
the project next to it in the
competition
and so we can allocate our votes
proportionately and get them more money
in the current voting system you just
literally can't do that
so we wanted it to be more dynamic
somebody just asked another question
sorry that distracted me anyway so we
wanted the allocation of funds to be
more dynamic
to be able to fit the needs of the
projects who were submitted and allow
the community to
fit those needs with their vote as well
yeah yep absolutely and i think like a
yeah yep absolutely and I think like a
linear when you don't have
a quadratic system or you don't have a
panel of judges you have to be really
careful
with how you allow votes to be allocated
because it would be really easy for
the wrong project to receive
a ridiculous amount of money through
manipulation and so you kind of
counteract some of the
manipulation by not allowing a project
to vote for themselves three times
or only and so you enforce like okay and
in the final round for example right now
you have to vote for three projects you
can't just vote for yourself
and that's that's really important
because if there is a project that's
kind of running away with the vote
they still have to allocate two of
their percentages they're 33
66 70 percent of their vote has to go to
other projects
but that necessarily means that the
the the
projection of votes or the distribution
of votes is going to be linear because
you don't have a lot of influence over
a really strong opinion in one way or
another and so once you have
both a panel of judges that ensures the
finalists list is always high quality
you have quadratic voting which allows
individuals to very strongly
point in the direction that they want
but also if you vote
exclusively on one project you only have
10 votes
whereas if you spread it out you have up
to like 100 votes like
you can really spread that out your
influence out over a large range
of projects if you want to and so the
the
ability to manipulate even without the
other
features that we have built in through
SMS messaging and
kind of the the improvement that that is
over key base
that's already better and so once you
add on top of it the SMS verification
hopefully again the the theory is
that we'll have a much
more dynamic voting mechan
mechanism that will better reflect the
actual entries in a particular round
rather than just kind of always being
linear
yeah for sure and like even you know if
it even if it ends up being a problem
where like
we have first place always wait out
performing or something like that you
can always tweet quadratic voting like
for example you can remove
one of the you can reduce the credits
from 100 to 99
and all of a sudden in order to vote
that requires you to distribute your
tokens
across i think three projects or
across I think three projects or
something like that to use all of them
so you can make small tweets like that
and it can have you know big effects so
if there comes a time where
it feels like we need to make changes
like that we can easily do so
one of the projects that came up was
or not projects questions
was will we be able to engage judges
ahead of time to address any concerns
they may have regarding technical
feasibility or other issues
yeah fantastic question absolutely you
will the panel of judges is probably
going to be about 10
individuals per round and there'll be
a lot of
discussion back and forth on on the
projects that they feel
the panel feels our potential for
finalists
and there's still some like the panels
like we're going to have to figure it
out how how the judging actually works
like
if you only have to go through 20
projects 30 projects that's pretty
that's relatively easy to do and to
give a bit more
hands-on experience for every single
entry whereas if you have 500
which i think our last spc had something
which I think our last spc had something
like 500 entries
not everybody's going to be able to
be reached out to
and so there'll be a little bit of back
and forth and you need to make sure that
your entry
is really strong and really solid and
you don't feel like there should be a
whole lot of back and forth because what
you've put out there is really good
you need to put your best foot
forward and really make an impression
and make it a proven and not assume that
if i put something out there that's kind
if I put something out there that's kind
of half-hearted
that it still has a chance because
someone will reach out to me that may or
may not be the case
so i would always encourage entrants to
so I would always encourage entrants to
really put maximum effort
that they that they feel is worth it for
them into their entry
and then as the panelists go through the
entries
hopefully you get someone to to kind of
adopt your project and start reaching
out and
kind of provide some of that
relationship and that feedback and if
not
the community is always available
like there's there's a ton of people out
there that are never going to be on a
panel but that can still provide
feedback for your project and
help you improve it so that when it does
come time for the next lab fund or
a seed fund your project's even stronger
but it will be important to kind of
serve yourself
first in this in this competition
particularly as we start we continue to
grow and
have more entries to not assume
too much
of our panelists but to make it as easy
as possible for them to recognize
that your project is insane that it's
amazing and it deserves
a little bit of a longer look in the
same way that you would make a pitch to
any other fund any other funding
opportunity
really make that strong sort of elevator
pitch if you will
yeah and somebody asks if the quadratic
voting demo is on
github or if it'll be on github later
it might be i can make sure we put
it might be I can make sure we put
that up
for sure yeah it would be good for other
people to look through that you can
obviously play around with it at
fqv.versal.app
but i'll make sure i have the code
but i'll make sure I have the code
available for
for review and
tweaking sweet and then somebody said if
a project is very ambitious
its product has to be way more advanced
than others because people can sell the
idea that they need way more funds when
this is not true yeah of course i mean
this is not true yeah of course I mean
that's kind of the nature of like a
competition right you have to sell
people on
on your vision and what you're building
anyway and if somebody does
a better job of selling the fact that
they might need more funding or
something like that
and the community supports it and wants
to get behind it that's
you know more power to those people
right like they've they've done a good
job of pitching the community
and it can also be the case that a
project very obviously
needs way more funding but they do a way
worse job of pitching their idea to the
community
and they won't receive as much funding
that's kind of like an inherent
feature of competitions rather than
like some problem that you can kind of
easily solve outside of having
you know one entity pick where money
should go yeah
yeah i think it's worth speaking to that
yeah I think it's worth speaking to that
a little bit particularly as somebody
myself who competed in both the spc
and the scf it's not it's not crazy easy
it isn't easy to win these competitions
but
if you treat it serious and you treat it
for the fun that it is
and really put your heart and soul not
just into the code and into your idea
and kind of
i don't know attaching yourself
I don't know attaching yourself
personally to your project but kind of
saying that this is a
community effort i i want to make
community effort I want to make
something that's valuable to other
people
that necessarily like if that's a
priority of yours to make something that
other people care about
necessarily that means you're going to
promote it you're going to talk about it
because you want people to use it you
want it to improve their lives
if you're just making something that's
fun and you don't really care if people
interact with it or benefit from it
again that might be a really good lab
fund entry but you're still going to
need to market you're still going to
need to get people's eyeballs on it and
some buzz around it and that can be a
little bit
challenging i think as developers
challenging I think as developers
to like think about how do i promote
to like think about how do I promote
this thing i just want to code it and i
this thing I just want to code it and i
understand that challenge but it also
gives you that opportunity to kind of
get a leg up on on other developers or
entrants that aren't willing to do that
and
like we want projects to win not just
because they did a good job but because
other people are going to use
the the project that they're building
and see the value and get it if you
build something amazing but nobody knows
about it that's that's kind of sad
that's unfortunate and i'd like i'd like
to see amazing projects
get visibility and i want to help with
get visibility and I want to help with
that as well as as you taking that
effort
and and putting it out there but it's
it's both of us the the
actual fund itself putting facetime on
to the projects that are
highest quality and putting the most
effort in as well as you really selling
that and saying that i've built
something and it's amazing
and here's why doing blog posts and
putting a little bit of
good care into the design the actual ui
and ux
thinking through what would it be like
to judge this project and how can i
improve that making sure that they're a
good
demo username and password available
if your
if your project has a login barrier
like simple things like that a video
explainer showcasing your team putting
your face on a camera like
those things can really go a long way
and that's not
it's not like the scf's the only fund
that's like that anywhere you try and
get funding anywhere that it's a
competition
that's going to be true that those who
put the most effort into
communicating and selling their project
they're going to do the best
particularly if they've spent a lot
of time actually making their project
good right like you don't want to
promote something that really isn't all
that great but if you have both of those
things together
like maybe skip a round of lab fund and
really dive into
having both of those pieces a really
good project
and really good marketing and really
good blog posts and and
combining both of those things together
to really give yourself the best chance
at succeeding in the lab or or in
the seed fund
yeah and it is worth noting like i think
yeah and it is worth noting like I think
going forward
in different rounds of seo if we're
going to do a really we're going to try
to do a really good job of like
highlighting what made projects
successful in any given round
that way like everybody can kind of
learn from each other and there's not
this like black hole of you trying to
figure out
you know what do i need to do to to
you know what do I need to do to to
perform well
in scf i think we're going to try to do
in scf I think we're going to try to do
a way better job of of getting that
information out there so everybody can
kind of learn from each other and it
makes the competition
you know better for everybody yeah
absolutely yep some blog posts on how to
place well in the scf you know what what
are judges looking for like
again adding the relationship piece and
putting a little bit more focus on that
i think treating the scf
I think treating the scf
like it's a product like it's a thing
rather than kind of just a
something that's also going on somewhere
out there you know good luck
as it's kind of been a little bit in
the past trying to focus a little bit
more on this is really important
to the ecosystem and building up the
resources
and the marketing and the the
communication relationship aspect of the
seller community fund so that it
just provides that really strong
opportunity to get funding
and recognition for the work that you're
doing instead and really incentivize you
to want to build on seller and to
give you the right route to succeed
whether that's through funding
relationships building you know going
from the lab fund to the seed fund from
something fun to a business like
there's a lot of different tracks that
individuals can take
but really making like highlighting
those and helping people along
and including the community in that so
it's not just me and colton trying to do
everything
but that the community knows where
they can get involved and
where the gaps are that need to be
filled so that this thing can really
take on
a much stronger community sense
and finding where that where that is
where that's needed and where it can
best fit
as the fund again continues to mature
as it has been
sweet i think we're caught up on
sweet I think we're caught up on
questions so we can move on in the
presentation
all right super duper not not too much
further to go appreciate everyone for
the for the fantastic questions these
are obviously two very important
components that really highlight
the difference between what we have
right now and
what we're launching today so
kind of in conclusion two key takeaways
the sdf funds projects
and so if you've got a contact you
know clients
or yourself who's looking
either maybe isn't a good fit for the
infrastructure again or the enterprise
fund which we also have but are
strictly sdf managed refer them to the
scf you know point people towards us
get yourself involved whether as a judge
or as a participant
with a split between the lab and the
seed funds we have a strong funding
avenue for more mature and serious
entrepreneurs
while still providing a profitable
playground for new
and curious developers so we've really
got that platform that's going to
support
a much wider ecosystem in a much more
effective way
so we fund projects but you can also
help and i cannot emphasize this
help and I cannot emphasize this
enough
like we we get you know this is a
Stellar fund we get that it's a fund
but let's let's let's really take
some time thinking about the community
aspect of this to get involved
join the seller dot community fund
key base group
i would highly encourage that that if
I would highly encourage that that if
this is something that's interesting to
you whether the design of the fund
itself the
the participation as a voter or your got
questions about the entry
how to enter or you know anything
related this is kind of where the
community is going to talk
about about this other community fund
so make sure you jump into
Stellar.community
fund and then also make sure you
participate
in community discussion whether that's
on key base or in different
discussion groups as well as the voting
phases so when voting comes out
participate get involved you know spend
those credits
put them where you think they should go
and then also help to share the story of
solid entries
as well as referring those potential
participants so
as you have social media accounts and
you want to get the word out of projects
that you care about that you i mean if
that you care about that you I mean if
you've put credits toward them
share their story like get them out
there so that they can not just receive
funding from
from the sdf but they can actually
get involvement from the greater
community maybe they come back and
participate in another lab fund with new
improvements
and you're starting to invest and put
energy towards people and not just
projects and really want to see
individual developers
and contributors creators succeed
whether that's in a particular project
or across multiple entries
starting to invest not just in
projects but people
is something that i'd really like to see
coming out of this
this update so that's the that's the
close
there's no context behind that picture
you get no context this is
inside joke now this is
yeah thanks for watching
before no before we before we wrap it up
we do need to share
the announcement blog post and we
need to show the site
that's correct so you're ahead of
yourself sir
I'm gonna share the announcement blog
post right now in the chat
so if people want to head over and read
that it's basically like a nice
shareable summary of everything we just
said fantastic will you be able to pull
up the site
nice tada amazing so this is the
all new and and how convenient somebody
just asked what the dates are for the
first round so we can go
over that fantastic question but the
new site
is over at communityfun.Stellar.org a
lot of work has gone into the site over
the past
i don't even know how long it's been
I don't even know how long it's been
huge collapse
she she's a web flow wizard now
designed this built this whole site
basically on our own
unbelievable incredible huge props to
anka
for this incredible site but yes the
Stellar community fund has a marketing
page and it's not just here's the rules
it actually outlines what it is the
two different funds
we've got we've got we got an art we
got a marketing video what
we're big we're big leagues colton yeah
i know
I know
but anyways the website has a breakdown
of both the funds
it has you know a couple
step-by-steps it's got some featured
projects it's got some
cool illustrations of little astronauts
which are amazing
but each each tab on there so the seed
fund tab and
the lab fund tab i believe have not
the lab fund tab I believe have not
only prize pools but the dates
on when they start and a countdown timer
which one are we on right now this is
the lab fund okay
so the lab fund actually i don't know
so the lab fund actually I don't know
what the today's date is
august 28th which technically the the
the lab and the seed fund are open
for submissions right now which i
don't know if i would submit today
don't know if I would submit today
unless you've just been sitting on an
entry but
they're officially both open right now
so you are welcome
to begin submitting projects to these
brand new
lab and seed funds so the lab fund
obviously will close first it's the
shorter fund
opens up today submissions will close
on september 21st so according to our
countdown timer that gives you
about 23 days to submit to our very
first lab fund
the community discussion will then
I'm sorry the panel discussion
will begin then on september 21st and go
through october 12th
then october 26th after the community
discussion where the community will kind
of go through the entries and ask any
follow-up questions and have an
opportunity to engage in
the entries the community voting will
begin that'll go on for a week as normal
on that new flaggable quadratic voting
and it all happens right here so rather
than there being galactic talk
and the voting page it's all integrated
straight into start
I'm sorry communityfun.stiller.org all
integrator right here you can go and
log in if you are an entrant log in with
your phone number and that allows you to
enter
your project if you're a panel judge
which there's not too many of you but
if you are a panel judge panel judges
will log in with their key base account
that's how we differentiate between
entrants
and panelists and then you can go
through
your projects either to enter or to
begin the selection
so this is all very obviously brand new
experimental in a sense but we're very
excited we put a lot of time and effort
into this but as you have questions
or feedback you can reach out on that
Stellar
community fund key base channel or go to
this connect page where we've got a form
down the bottom where you can also reach
out as you have
issues bug reports other questions if
you've got
partnership opportunities anything like
that you can reach out
through that form and then just to cover
really quick on the seed fund
timing you can check it out yourself but
submissions are open now
and those will actually go all the way
through january 18
2021. this is because seed fund projects
are big projects these are not
quick hey i've got an idea this weekend
these are big projects we want to see
businesses coming out of this that will
last
a year so we're putting lots of time
available for
submitting your idea to the seed fund
and then panels will begin selecting
those january 18th that'll go on through
till march 15th
where the community discussion will
begin that'll go through april 26th and
then finally on
may 10th the community voting will
end the community voting for this is
actually two weeks
but then may 10th the first seed fund
will
close out if you have other questions
about
the rest of the dates those are also
in another community post that we're
putting out talking a little bit more
about the technical details
behind the Stellar community fund
yeah and if you if you go through some
of the like submission requirements and
it's still not clear
please reach out to tyler or me or
anybody else to kind of discuss
where your project might fit whether
in the seed fund or the lab fund
and we can definitely have that
discussion and then you know see
which part of those sort of requirements
and descriptions were confusing because
it's extremely important
that we clearly communicate the
separation between the two
yep so we've done quite a bit of writing
both on those blog posts to explain the
new sef as well as
on these kind of these couple how-to
articles as well as the guidelines rules
the phases
in the projects or in the rounds
as well as just a look at previous
winners but as you go through that
content if there are
things you feel like we could do better
i mean again this is a community effort
I mean again this is a community effort
not just in the fund itself but in the
actual design
of the community fund so we're would
love feedback and
improvement ideas or are the articles
that you would find helpful
you can always submit those through that
form or just in the key based group to
make suggestions
sweet and i think we've been going for a
sweet and I think we've been going for a
long time so
we can wrap this thing up yeah i mean
we can wrap this thing up yeah I mean
it's I'm super excited I'm i mean if you
it's I'm super excited I'm I mean if you
can't tell I'm i've we've spent so much
time on this
as someone who used to participate
like this is the fund i would have
like this is the fund I would have
wanted
so i I'm so happy and excited to have
so I I'm so happy and excited to have
this live can't wait to see what people
build
watching to see how it continues to
mature
and iterate i would love to see the
and iterate I would love to see the
community get more wrapped up
in the community fund and engaged and
have a bit of
ownership around what it is and how it
operates
so excited to be at a spot where we
can finally launch this new thing
and really be starting continuing but
starting from a strong place
to continue our community fund efforts
in aligning with the mandate that we
have
for this particular allocation of lumens
sweet thanks everybody
yep thanks guys as you have questions
again reach out
otherwise it's been a lot of fun
explaining it walking through it
and i can't wait to see what you build
and I can't wait to see what you build
and hopefully won't be too long before
before we have another one of these
live hangout shows
maybe even next week Stellar podcast
live next week
there's the plug